Counseling Capsules
An information service from the UTEP Counseling Center
visit our web site at: http://sa.utep.edu/counsel/
Depression
Everyone feels down at times. The break-up of a relationship or poor grades can lead to low spirits.
Sometimes sadness comes on for no apparent reason. Is there any difference between these shifting moods
and what is called clinical depression? Anyone who has had an episode of clinical depression would
probably answer "yes".
There is growing evidence that clinical depression is partly an illness with a biological basis and that it is
more common in individuals whose close relatives have been affected. Psychological and social factors also
play a vital role. The loss of a loved one or a disappointment may trigger a depression, as may past losses,
a lack of social supports, and the absence of avenues for fulfillment. The duration and depth of
despondency and the presence of characteristic symptoms help distinguish clinical depression from ordinary
unhappiness.
If someone experiences most of the symptoms below for more than two weeks, there is a good chance
they are suffering from a clinical depression.
SIGNS OF DEPRESSION
Inability to concentrate
Inability to experience pleasure
Decreased interest in daily activities
Increase in self-critical thoughts
Recurrent thoughts of death and/or suicide
Increased isolation from others
Missing deadlines/decreased
performance
Feelings of excessive guilt, helplessness
and/or hopelessness
Difficulties falling or staying asleep
Sleeping too much
Feeling fatigued despite adequate sleep
Decreased appetite and/or pleasure in
food
Changes in personality
Changes in sexual desire
Increased alcohol/drug use
WHAT TREATMENTS ARE AVAILABLE?
The UTEP Counseling Center provides students free and confidential evaluation and
counseling services.
In mild cases of depression, friends and family may provide all the support needed.
In more severe cases, Mental Health Professionals should be consulted.
People with moderate to severe depression may benefit from antidepressant medications.
These medications are prescribed by a medical professional after a thorough evaluation. There
is usually a positive effect within a few weeks.
Taking antidepressant medication does not preclude the need for other forms of treatment.
Individual and/or group counseling and psychotherapy is an important treatment component.
Depressed individuals who are at high risk of suicide may require short-term hospitalization.
While this is often seen as a drastic measure, it can be life saving, and it may allow effective
treatment to begin.
HELP! WHERE TO FIND IT: University Counseling Center.747-5302
202 West Union: 8-7 M-T / 8-5 W-F