How does mental health services work? Honestly my mental health is doing good right now. I really want some help but don't like calling because I don't know who to call or how to ask for help, especially with how to get services or cheap ones since I'm a broke college student. I'm just really embarrassed of my mental health. Any info helps, please, thank you. (Original post in r/UTEP)

Don't be embarrassed about your mental health. There is a mental health crisis throughout the world right now. Below is the contact information for Counseling Services at UTEP. They claim they answer the phone after hours. If they do not, let me know — I work at UTEP and I will walk over there and figure out what is going on. The University of Texas at El Paso, Counseling and Psychological Services, 202 Union West, 500 W University, El Paso, Texas 79968. Email: caps@utep.edu. Phone: (915) 747-5302.

I hate going in person because there is a stigma in my family of "oh that isn't real" — like anxiety, stress, depression, they just ignore that type of stuff, so it feels like everyone thinks that way.

I get it, but not everyone thinks that way. Don't worry about family stigmas — you need to take care of you.

Contact CAPS at UTEP, they will be able to help you and provide resources.

I have to agree, never be embarrassed regarding your health. UTEP offers various services; below are several of the pages available as resources, and there are tons of free services outside of UTEP as well: Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), and El Paso City Free Counseling Services.

A professor advised me to contact CAPS about a year ago. I didn't give them a call but did try going in person to their office. I went during a normal weekday during their hours of operation and the door was locked and no one responded to a knock. I gave up and never tried again. However, based on what my professor told me, they have degrees and specialize with students and their needs. The best thing is that it's "free" (part of your tuition). Based on your post, I really do recommend you calling or going.
