Counseling Capsules
An information service of the UTEP Counseling Center
Visit our web site at: http://sa.utep.edu/counsel/
SUNY Buffalo, University of Oregon
Problem with Alcohol
or Drugs?
At times you may wonder if you have a problem with alcohol and/or drugs. The following
questions will help you determine whether you should be concerned about your substance use
pattern.
QUESTIONS TO EXPLORE
What are the effects you hope to get from "using"? For example: to be more sociable; to be
liked and to "fit in"; to relax; to forget painful experiences, feelings or thoughts…etc.
Are you "using" by yourself?
Has your tolerance changed? Does it now take more alcohol/drugs to feel a buzz?
Do you have trouble with your memory?
Do you use on a regular basis?
If you are using alcohol, is it difficult to stop after two or three drinks?
Do you put yourself at ease by thinking your substance use is no different from that
of your friends; that using is part of "partying" which is part of being a student...etc.
Do you participate in risk-taking behaviors, even after experiencing negative consequences?
For example: having unprotected sex, driving under the influence, etc…
Do you have financial difficulties as a result of your substance use?
Do you ever feel guilty/ashamed about your behavior when under the influence?
Do you have alcoholism or addiction in your family history?
SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF ALCOHOL ABUSE
Loss of time from
school or work due to
drinking.
Mood fluctuations.
Depression or
unhappiness due to
drinking.
Drinking in order to
cope with personal
problems.
Drinking to build selfconfidence.
Loss of interest in
family and friends.
Poor judgment.
Loss of interest in
activities which were
once of interest.
Difficulty sleeping due
to drinking.
Drinking outside of a
social setting.
Experiencing memory
blackouts during or
after drinking.
Usually drinking to the
point of intoxication.
Feeling guilty about
drinking.
Not fulfilling promises
or obligations because
of drinking.
Showing-up
intoxicated in
inappropriate settings.
Drinking to overcome
shyness.
Developing health
problems due to
drinking.
Legal problems (DUI).
Counseling Capsules
An information service of the UTEP Counseling Center
Visit our web site at: http://sa.utep.edu/counsel/
SUNY Buffalo, University of Oregon
HELP! WHERE TO FIND IT:
UTEP Counseling Center…747-5302
202 West Union 8-7 M-T / 8-5 W-F 