COUNSELING CAPSULES
An information service of the UTEP Counseling Center
Visit our web site at: http://sa.utep.edu/counsel//
University of California, Irvine
Test anxiety is an issue that many students face at one time or another. It is important to learn to
recognize test anxiety and how to cope with it more effectively. Anxiety is a normal human feeling
that is part of life and often serves as a form of adrenaline (e.g., butterflies before making a
speech). The anxiety can help by providing alertness and readiness, however, excessive anxiety
can result in stress and hinder one's performance (e.g. Test Anxiety!!!).
Symptoms of Test Anxiety
Fear of failing before arriving to take the exam.
Feeling tension as exam is being passed out.
Physical symptoms such as: increased heart rate, shortness of breath, perspiring, etc.
Negative thinking such as: "I am going to fail", "I am dumb", "I shouldn't even bother taking
the exam".
"Blanking out" on information that you studied.
Recalling information, upon leaving the classroom or a short period later, that you "blanked
out on" during the exam.
Frustrated with your grade on the exam because you know you were well prepared.
Tips for Reducing Test Anxiety
Prepare for the exam ahead of time. "Cramming" is a big culprit of test anxiety.
Get plenty of rest and sleep the night before the exam.
Don't forget to eat the day of the exam, preferably something nutritious.
Avoid arriving too early or late to the exam.
Avoid last minute studying. Remember you are already prepared.
Avoid listening to others or discussing the exam with others, while you're waiting for the
exam. The anxiety of others can "rub off" and suddenly you begin to doubt yourself.
Don't forget to breathe! Take deep breaths to help you relax. Don't worry; nobody will notice!
While you are taking deep breaths, replace any negative thoughts with positive thoughts. For
 example, you may find it useful to repeat positive statements to yourself such as the
 following: “I am relaxed.", "I am prepared.", "I am a good student." (Make up your own!)
Don't get bogged down and worry about questions you don't know. Move on. Later, the
 answer may come to you or you may get clues from other exam questions.
Reward yourself when you are finished with the exam.
If would like more information or if you have questions about your anxiety, please call to talk to a
counselor and/or make an appointment.
HELP! WHERE TO FIND IT: University Counseling Center…747-5302
202 West Union: 8-7 M-T / 8-5 W-F